---
id: r346
title: Use initialization vectors once
sidebar_label: Use initialization vectors once
slug: /criteria/cryptography/346
---

## Requirement

The system should use initialization vectors,
nonces and other single use numbers only once with a given encryption key.

## Descriptions

The system’s cryptographic keys are essential
for maintaining the confidentiality and integrity of transactions
and communications. Some encryption mechanisms use initialization vectors
to reduce the chances that a message will be decrypted.
These vectors should be generated
using cryptographically secure random number generators
and should only be used once with a given encryption key.

## References

- [CWE-326: Inadequate Encryption Strength:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/326.html)
The software stores or transmits sensitive data using an encryption scheme
that is theoretically sound,
but is not strong enough for the level of protection required.

- [CWE-330: Use of Insufficiently Random Values:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/330.html)
The software uses insufficiently random numbers
or values in a security context that depends on unpredictable numbers.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V6.2 Algorithms.(6.2.6):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that nonces, initialization vectors, and other single use numbers
must not be used more than once with a given encryption key.
The method of generation must be appropriate for the algorithm being used.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V6.3 Random Values.(6.3.1):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that all random numbers, random file names, random **GUIDs**,
and random strings are generated using the cryptographic module’s approved
cryptographically secure random number generator
when these random values are intended to be not guessable by an attacker.
