---
id: r039
title: Define maximum file size
sidebar_label: Define maximum file size
slug: /criteria/files/039
---

## Requirement

The files manipulated by the system and the users
must have a defined maximum file size (*5MB* recommended).

## Description

When a system allows users to upload or attach files for storage,
the maximum file size limit must be defined for these files,
in order to avoid issues involving the availability of the service
and to reduce the chance of an attacker
uploading a file containing malicious software.

## Implementation

In order to define the file size limit,
you must first define the information storage needs
and the infrastructure size.
The company can set a default file size for information management
and define the exceptions they deem necessary
to increase the admitted file size,
but always keeping a defined limit
to avoid denial-of-service attacks
caused by abusing the system storage.

## Attacks

1. An application allows the uploading and storage of files.
A user continuously uploads large size files
until they cause a denial of service
because of the lack of space in the system.

## Attributes

- Layer: Application layer
- Asset: Files
- Scope: Availability
- Phase: Operation
- Type of control: Recommendation

## Findings

- [F029. Inadequate file size control](https://fluidattacks.com/products/rules/findings/029/)

## References

- [CWE-400: Uncontrolled Resource Consumption:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/400.html)
The software does not properly control the allocation and maintenance of a
limited resource,
thereby enabling an actor to influence the amount of resources consumed,
eventually leading to the exhaustion of available resources.

- [CWE-409: Improper Handling of Highly Compressed Data (Data Amplification):](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/409.html)
The software does not handle or incorrectly handles a compressed input with a
very high compression ratio that produces a large output.

- [CWE-770: Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/770.html)
The software allocates a reusable resource or group of resources on behalf of
an actor without imposing any restrictions on the size or number of resources
that can be allocated,
in violation of the intended security policy for that actor.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V11.1 Business Logic Security Requirements.(11.1.3):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify the application has appropriate limits for specific business actions or
transactions which are correctly enforced on a per user basis.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V11.1 Business Logic Security Requirements.(11.1.4):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify the application has sufficient anti-automation controls to detect and
protect against data exfiltration, excessive business logic requests, excessive
file uploads or denial of service attacks.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V12.1 File Upload Requirements.(12.1.1):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that the application will not accept large files that could fill up
storage or cause a denial of service attack.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V12.1 File Upload Requirements.(12.1.2):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that compressed files are checked for "zip bombs" - small input files
that will decompress into huge files thus exhausting file storage limits.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V12.1 File Upload Requirements.(12.1.3):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that a file size quota and maximum number of files per user is enforced
to ensure that a single user cannot fill up the storage with too many files,
or excessively large files.
