---
id: r045
title: Remove metadata when sharing files
sidebar_label: Remove metadata when sharing files
slug: /criteria/files/045
---

## Requirement

The organization must remove file metadata
before sharing it or making it public.

## Types

- [119. Metadata with sensitive information](/types/119)

## References

- [CWE-1230: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Metadata:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1230.html)
The product prevents direct access to a resource containing
sensitive information, but it does not sufficiently limit access to metadata
that is derived from the original, sensitive information.

- [GDPR. Art. 25: Data protection by design and by default.(1):](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-25-gdpr/)
The controller shall, both at the time of the determination of the means
for processing and at the time of the processing itself,
implement appropriate technical and organizational measures.

- [GDPR. Recital 51: Protecting sensitive personal data:](https://gdpr-info.eu/recitals/no-51/)
Personal data which are, by their nature, particularly sensitive in relation
to fundamental rights and freedoms merit specific protection
as the context of their processing could create significant risks
to the fundamental rights and freedoms.

- [OWASP Top 10 A3:2017-Sensitive Data Exposure:](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/OWASP_Top_Ten_2017/Top_10-2017_A3-Sensitive_Data_Exposure)
Many web applications and **APIs** do not properly protect sensitive data,
such as financial, healthcare, and **PII**.
Attackers may steal or modify such weakly protected data
to conduct credit card fraud, identity theft, or other crimes.
Sensitive data may be compromised without extra protection,
such as encryption at rest or in transit,
and requires special precautions when exchanged with the browser.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V4.3 Other Access Control Considerations.(4.3.2):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that directory browsing is disabled unless deliberately desired.
Additionally, applications should not allow discovery
or disclosure of file or directory metadata, such as Thumbs.db, .DS_Store,
.git or .svn folders.
