---
id: r323
title: Exclude unverifiable files
sidebar_label: Exclude unverifiable files
slug: /criteria/requirements/source/323
---

## Requirement

Binary and other types of files,
which are often not audited for security purposes,
should not be stored in the source code repository.

## Description

Binary files usually
have a file size greater than their source counterpart,
which can eventually affect a repository's performance.
Changes done to them
are often hard to track for versioning tools
or make no sense for a reviewer.
Furthermore,
security audits on binary files
are more complicated or simply not performed,
and these could contain serious vulnerabilities
such as backdoors, rootkits
and exposed sensitive information.

## Exceptions

- Image files.

## Vulnerabilities

- [117. Unverifiable files](/criteria/vulnerabilities/117)

## References

- [CWE-510: Trapdoor:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/510.html)
A trapdoor is a hidden piece of code
that responds to a special input,
allowing its user access to resources
without passing through
the normal security enforcement mechanism.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V10.2 Malicious Code Search.(10.2.3):](https://owasp.org/www-pdf-archive/OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_4.0-en.pdf)
Verify that the application source code
and third party libraries do not contain backdoors,
such as hard-coded
or additional undocumented accounts or keys,
code obfuscation, undocumented binary blobs,
rootkits or anti-debugging,
insecure debugging features,
or otherwise out of date, insecure,
or hidden functionality
that could be used maliciously if discovered.
