---
id: r356
title: Verify sub-domain names
sidebar_label: Verify sub-domain names
slug: /criteria/networks/356
---

## Requirement

The system should regularly check **DNS** names and sub-domain names in use
by the application for expiration or change.
This helps protect applications from the effects of sub-domain
takeover attacks.

## References

- [CWE-350: Reliance on Reverse DNS Resolution for a Security-Critical Action:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/350.html)
The software performs reverse **DNS** resolution on an **IP** address to
obtain the hostname and make a security decision, but it does not properly
ensure that the **IP** address is truly associated with the hostname.

- [OWASP Top 10 A6:2017-Security Misconfiguration:](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/OWASP_Top_Ten_2017/Top_10-2017_A6-Security_Misconfiguration)
Security misconfiguration is the most commonly seen issue.
This is commonly a result of insecure default configurations, incomplete
or ad hoc configurations, open cloud storage, misconfigured **HTTP** headers,
and verbose error messages containing sensitive information.
Not only must all operating systems, frameworks, libraries, and applications
be securely configured, but they must be patched/upgraded in a timely fashion.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V10.3 Deployed Application Integrity Controls.(10.3.3):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify that the application has protection from sub-domain takeovers if the
application relies upon **DNS** entries or **DNS** sub-domains, such as expired
domain names, out of date **DNS** pointers or **CNAME**s, expired projects at
public source code repos, or transient cloud **API**s, serverless functions,
or storage buckets (autogen-bucket-id.cloud.example.com) or similar.
Protections can include ensuring that **DNS** names used by applications are
regularly checked for expiry or change.
