---
id: r373
title: Use certificate pinning
sidebar_label: Use certificate pinning
slug: /criteria/certificates/373
---

## Requirement

Mobile applications
should use certificate pinning
to validate the endpoints.
If a pinset is used,
up to 2 certificates should be allowed.

## Types

- [017. Sensitive information sent insecurely](/types/017)

## References

- [CAPEC-94: Man in the Middle Attack:](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/94.html)
This type of attack targets the communication
between two components (typically client and server).
The attacker places themself in the communication channel
between the two components.
Whenever one component attempts to communicate
with the other
(data flow, authentication challenges, etc.),
the data first goes to the attacker,
who has the opportunity to observe
or alter it,
and it is then passed on
to the other component
as if it was never observed.

- [CWE-295: Improper Certificate Validation](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/295.html)
The software does not validate,
or incorrectly validates,
a certificate. 

- [CWE-297: Improper Validation of Certificate with Host Mismatch](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/297.html)
The software communicates with a host
that provides a certificate,
but the software does not properly ensure
that the certificate is actually associated
with that host.

- [CWE-300: Channel Accessible by Non-Endpoint:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/300.html)
The product does not adequately verify the identity
of actors at both ends
of a communication channel,
or does not adequately ensure
the integrity of the channel,
in a way that allows the channel to be accessed
or influenced by an actor
that is not an endpoint.
