---
id: r316
title: Allow rectification requests
sidebar_label: Allow rectification requests
slug: /criteria/privacy/316
---

## Requirement

The system must allow its users to request rectification
of the collected data belonging to them.

## Description

Systems usually request information from their users,
obtain it from third parties
or collect it based on their interactions with the application.
They should have a mechanism that allows users to find out about this
information and request rectification if they consider it necessary.

## Exceptions

1. If the system is able to demonstrate that it is not possible to individually
identify users based on the information collected from them,
this requirement is not applicable.

2. The processing of the personal information might have scientific,
historical research or statistical purposes.
If the system properly safeguards this information and if complying with this
requirement seriously impairs these purposes,
this requirement is not applicable.

3. The processing of the personal information might have archiving purposes
in the public interest.
If the system properly safeguards this information and if complying with this
requirement seriously impairs these purposes,
this requirement is not applicable.

## Types

- [088. Privacy violation](https://fluidattacks.com/products/rules/findings/088/)

## References

- [GDPR. Art. 11: Processing which does not require identification.(2):](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-11-gdpr/)
Where the controller is able to demonstrate that it is not in a position to
identify the data subject,
articles 15 to 20 shall not apply.

- [GDPR. Art. 16: Right to rectification.(1):](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-16-gdpr/)
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller without
undue delay the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning him or
her.

- [GDPR. Art. 89: Safeguards and derogations relating to processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes.(2):](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-89-gdpr/)
Where personal data are processed for scientific or historical research
purposes or statistical purposes,
Union or Member State law may provide for derogations from the rights referred
to in Articles 15, 16, 18 and 21.

- [GDPR. Art. 89: Safeguards and derogations relating to processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes.(3):](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-89-gdpr/)
Where personal data are processed for archiving purposes in the public
interest,
Union or Member State law may provide for derogations from the rights referred
to in Articles 15, 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21.

- [ISO 27001:2013. Annex A - 18.1.4:](https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:54534:en)
When applicable, guarantee the privacy and security of personal information,
as required by the relevant legislation and regulations.
