---
slug: compliance/owasp/
title: OWASP
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, through comprehensive analysis,
    we can help you comply with a variety of security standards
    for information technology, including OWASP.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, OWASP, Top 10, Continuous Hacking,
    Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### How can Fluid Attacks help with OWASP compliance?

Ensuring compliance with up-to-date security standards may become a
complicated issue for diverse organizations that use continually
evolving information technology for their businesses. Fluid Attacks
recognizes this and offers you comprehensive testing and analysis to
determine whether your company is effectively complying with all
corresponding security requirements.

Although Fluid Attacks’ [Continuous
Hacking](../../services/continuous-hacking/) service goes beyond the
OWASP Top 10 Web Application Security Risk, testing around 200 technical
security requirements in each of your projects, we can guarantee the
detection of all vulnerabilities in your software associated with such
risks. In addition, we provide you with reliable reports so that your
team can take the necessary steps to adjust and maintain your
information systems in line with such requirements.

All our security testing is based on
[Criteria](https://docs.fluidattacks.com/criteria/), which is a set of
security requirements written by us in a comprehensible manner, using
several international standards as a reference. It allows you to
parameterize the assessments we make to your systems and determine what
your company agrees to comply with and what would be considered a
vulnerability.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is the OWASP?

The Open Web Application Security Project ([OWASP](https://owasp.org/)),
of which Fluid Attacks is a corporate member, is a non-profit foundation
that through different means of communication is committed to improving
the security of software. The OWASP works as an online, open community
where anyone can contribute to the production of material in the field
of web application security and also take advantage of the available
information. Their repository is useful for companies that develop or
manage web applications, since it relies on the knowledge of many global
community members with extensive experience in cybersecurity.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is the OWASP Top 10?

The OWASP Top 10 refers to a cybersecurity guide by the OWASP community
that is created in agreement between experts and serves both developers
and security professionals in their projects. This guide, with a
[current version
from 2017](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/​), lists the
ten most common and critical security risks in web applications and
provides practical information for their prevention or remediation.

The idea with this ranking is to help reduce the presence of flaws in
web applications that can be easily exploited and generate terrible
impact. Organizations should always be careful not to bring into
production applications with vulnerabilities related to these security
risks, making sure to pay attention to the most prevalent risks in their
specific industry sector. Here we show you the current list of risks
with a brief description of each one (for more information see the
[official report](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/)):

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fl">

#### 1. Injection

[A code
injection](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A1_2017-Injection)
occurs when an application does not properly validate or sanitize input
and this can be leveraged to make it process the input as code.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fr">

#### 2. Broken Authentication

[Attackers can
take](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A2_2017-Broken_Authentication)
advantage of misconfigured session authentication and management
functions in the applications and compromise passwords, sessions, and
even entire systems.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fl">

#### 3. Sensitive Data Exposure

[This problem
occurs](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A3_2017-Sensitive_Data_Exposure)
when applications do not have sufficient protection for sensitive data
(e.g., financial data), leaving it publicly accessible or without
adequate access controls that prevent attackers from obtaining it for
illegal activities.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fr">

#### 4. XML External Entities (XXE)

[In this
case](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A4_2017-XML_External_Entities_\(XXE\)),
attackers exploit weak configurations in a web application that parses
XML input but does not properly handle references to external entities,
which can be used to exfiltrate documents, execute code remotely or
perform denial-of-service attacks.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fl">

#### 5. Broken Access Control

[Web applications
need](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A5_2017-Broken_Access_Control)
to establish limits for the access to data and functions depending on
the type of user. Here, the attackers circumvent misconfigured
(sometimes simply non-existent) access restrictions and can operate as
any user, including administrators.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fr">

#### 6. Security Misconfiguration

[This misconfiguration
refers](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A6_2017-Security_Misconfiguration)
to the inappropriate implementation of controls for the application’s
security, resulting in the exposure of error messages containing
sensitive data and the use of non-updated systems or components.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fl">

#### 7. Cross-Site Scripting XSS

[Attackers can
inject](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A7_2017-Cross-Site_Scripting_\(XSS\))
client-side scripts into the web application to change its behavior,
modify what is displayed to the users or redirect the users to malicious
websites.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fr">

#### 8. Insecure Deserialization

[Deserialization](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A8_2017-Insecure_Deserialization)
process to serialization, consists in converting strings of bytes into
data structures that the application can use. Deserialization weaknesses
allow the attacker to execute code in the web application remotely and
manipulate serialized objects as desired.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fl">

#### 9. Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities

[Web applications
commonly](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A9_2017-Using_Components_with_Known_Vulnerabilities)
use various open-source and third-party components in which
vulnerabilities are sometimes found and need to be patched. Keeping
outdated versions of those components with known vulnerabilities leads
to having an application exposed to exploitation.

</div>

<div class="sect3 owasp-col fr">

#### 10. Insufficient Logging & Monitoring

[Many companies
do](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A10_2017-Insufficient_Logging%2526Monitoring)
not frequently log and monitor their applications’ activities. Usually,
data breaches are detected after months, when the attackers have already
done a lot of damage.

</div>

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### OWASP Benchmark Project v1.2

Our SAST tool achieved the best possible result against the OWASP
Benchmark: A TPR (True Positive Rate) of 100% and an FPR (False Positive
Rate) of 0%.

![OWASP benchmark
clnlip](https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1619725547/airs/compliance/OWASP_benchmark_clnlip.webp)

</div>