---
id: r172
title: Encrypt connection strings
sidebar_label: Encrypt connection strings
slug: /criteria/source/172
---

## Requirement

The system should load encrypted database connection strings from a protected
configuration file that resides separately from the source code.

## Description

Database connection strings are very sensitive information because they contain
credentials that often have high privileges over the system's database.
Thus, these strings should not be part of the system's source code and should
not be stored in plain text.
They should be encrypted using a secure cryptographic algorithm and the
encryption key should also be protected.

## References

- [CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/259.html)
The software contains a hard-coded password,
which it uses for its own inbound authentication or for outbound communication
to external components.

- [CWE-311: Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/259.html)
The software does not encrypt sensitive or critical information before storage
or transmission.

- [CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/798.html)
The software contains hard-coded credentials,
such as a password or cryptographic key,
which it uses for its own inbound authentication,
outbound communication to external components, or encryption of internal data.

- [OWASP-ASVS v4.0.1 V2.10 Service Authentication Requirements.(2.10.4):](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)
Verify passwords, integrations with databases and third-party systems, seeds
and internal secrets, and API keys are managed securely and not included in the
source code or stored within source code repositories.
Such storage SHOULD resist offline attacks.
The use of a secure software key store (L1),
hardware trusted platform module (TPM),
or a hardware security module (L3) is recommended for password storage.
