---
id: r325
title: Protect WSDL files
sidebar_label: Protect WSDL files
slug: /criteria/architecture/325
---

## Requirement

WSDL files containing sensitive information must not be publicly accessible.

## Description

Some web services architectures require exposing a WSDL file.
If this file contains sensitive information, such as deprecated methods
or administrative services, it should not be available to a wider audience
than it requires. If it must be available on a very public network,
like the internet, then it should not contain any sensitive information.

## Findings

- [040. Exposed web services](https://fluidattacks.com/products/rules/findings/040/)

## References

- [CAPEC-116: Excavation:](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/116.html)
An adversary actively probes the target in a manner that is designed to
solicit information that could be leveraged for malicious purposes.
This is achieved by exploring the target via ordinary interactions for the
purpose of gathering intelligence about the target, or by sending data
that is syntactically invalid or non-standard in an attempt
to produce a response that contains the desired data.

- [CAPEC-224: Fingerprinting:](https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/224.html)
An adversary compares output from a target system to known indicators
that uniquely identify specific details about the target.

- [CWE-651: Exposure of WSDL File Containing Sensitive Information:](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/651.html)
The Web services architecture may require exposing a
Web Service Definition Language (WSDL) file that contains
information on the publicly accessible services and
how callers of these services should interact with them
(e.g., what parameters they expect and what types they return).
